
  Installing Tile World for Linux

Before proceeding, ensure that you have SDL installed on your machine. (If
you don't have SDL, you can get it by visiting
http://www.libsdl.org/download.html. If you download a precompiled version
-- i.e., an .rpm or .deb file -- note that you will need the development
runtime, as opposed to the binary runtime.)

Installing Tile World involves the usual three-step invocation:

  ./configure

By default, the program is set up so that it will keep its shared files in
/usr/local/share/tworld. If you would prefer the tworld directory to be
somewhere besides /usr/local/share, use the --datadir option to change it
when you run ./configure. Alternately, you can use the --with-sharedir=DIR
option to explicitly specify a completely different path. (This value can
also be changed at runtime, either via the TWORLDDIR environment variable
or via the command line.)

  make

There shouldn't be any serious warnings from the compiler.

  make install

Running "make install" as root will do the following:

* Copy the tworld binary to /usr/local/games.
* Create /usr/local/share/tworld if it does not exist. (Or whatever
  directory you specified to ./configure.)
* Copy the external resources (i.e., the tile bitmaps) to
  /usr/local/share/tworld.
* Create an empty directory /usr/local/share/tworld/data.

This empty directory is where you will store the .dat files that you want
to use.

N.B.: With every alpha release, there is the possibility that one or more
of your saved games from a previous release will no longer work correctly.
This happens when your solution, knowingly or not, is dependent on a bug in
the emulation that has been fixed. When this happens, you can use Ctrl-X to
mark a solution as "replaceable", and then play the level. When you solve
it, your new solution will replace the old one, whether or not it has a
better time.

  mklynxcc

A very simple command-line utility is included, called mklynxcc. This
program will change a normal .dat file to one that will use the Lynx
ruleset when played. By making a copy of a .dat file and running this
utility on the copy, you can see how the levels work (or don't work) with
the Lynx ruleset.

However, the main purpose of this utility is to create a Lynx version of
the original chips.dat, so you can play the original version of the game.
When you run this utility on your chips.dat file (or rather, on a separate
copy of your chips.dat file), include the -x option. This will have the
added effect on the .dat file of restoring the wall on level 88 (SPIRALS)
that MS removed, assuming your chips.dat is one of those with a removed
wall. (It will also fix the four passwords that were changed from the
original Lynx codes -- levels 7, 10, 28, and 96.) The resulting .dat file
will thus provide a more accurate emulation of the original game. (Though
not perfect -- to be perfect it should remove level 145 and replace it with
a fractal generator.)
